Functional Test Cases
Verify that all mandatory fields are marked as such and cannot be left blank.
Validate that the registration form accepts valid and unique email addresses.
Test if the password field contains a requirement for minimum input length.
Check that the “Confirm Password” field matches the password entered.
Test if the registration form displays the right error messages for invalid or wrong inputs.
Verify that the registration form clears all fields after a successful registration.
Test if the registration process allows users to enter special characters in fields where applicable.
Validate that the form prevents registration with an already registered email address.
Test if the registration page has proper validation for optional fields.
Verify that a user receives a confirmation email upon the completion of a successful registration session.
Test if the registration form supports different input formats, such as uppercase, lowercase, and mixed case.
Validate if the registration form handles leading and trailing spaces appropriately.
Test if the registration page has a “Terms and Conditions” checkbox that is marked as a mandatory field.


Check if the registration form has all the fields per the requirement document.
Check if the user is able to sign up or register by entering the valid data in all the fields.
Check if the user can sign up by entering the valid data only in mandatory fields.
Check the registration form by entering the data only in the non-mandatory field.
Check the signup form by entering invalid data in all the mandatory fields.
Check all the mandatory fields are marked with an asterisk symbol.
Check the registration form by entering the data only in some mandatory fields.
Check the registration page without entering any data in the fields.
Check the blank fields of the registration form page by clicking on the submit button.
Check the alert message for all the mandatory fields.
Check the confirmation message when the user has successfully signed up or registered.
Check if all the fields have a valid label and placeholder.
Check whether all the fields have cleared the value after clicking the cancel button.
Check whether the keyboard tab button functionality is working or not.
Check the default values of all the fields on the registration page.
Check if the system sends a confirmation message through the email address after successfully filling and submitting the registration form.
Check whether the validation is available for the email, username, and password fields.
Check whether the password field values are displayed in an encrypted format.
Check whether the validation is added for passwords and confirm whether passwords are the same.
Check an eye icon added on the password and confirm the password field.
Check by clicking on the eye icon. password should be shown for both passwords and confirm password fields.
Check whether the captcha is added to the form or not.
If any validation fails, the entered user information stays as it is or gets removed.
Check possible validation, which should be done on the client side whenever possible.
A warning message will be displayed if the user enters blank spaces for the mandatory field and clicks submit.
Check those users who cannot register an account with the same registered email by adding the +(plus) symbol, for example, mailto:useractual+1@gmail.com.
Check if the error message displays by entering an already registered email address.
Check if the user signed up with email and social platforms and both have the same email; consider it one email uniquely, not two separate accounts.